Welcome back to Movie Shortens.
Follow us today to a movie titled: Planet
Of The Apes.
Be aware, there are spoilers!
The movie begins with the captain of a spaceship
sitting at its helm as it hurtles through
space.
As he, Taylor, puffs on a cigar, he reflects
that on the crew’s return to Earth - some
six months after they left it - it will have
aged around 700 years while they will have
hardly aged at all.
He also ponders, we assume for the benefit
of people listening back on Earth, whether
they will still be at war with each other
and mistreating each other.
With his crew already in a deep sleep in sealed-off
chambers, he injects himself in the arm and
joins them.
With the crew still fast asleep, we soon witness
the ship descending towards a barren planet
at speed, seemingly out of control.
It eventually crash-lands on a flat, still
body of water, awakening those on board.
As the confused and now bearded male members
of the team clamber quickly from their beds,
water gushing into the ship, they notice that
the only female member of the crew, Stewart,
has not made it - she has aged incredibly
and died en route.
The men set about trying to save themselves,
with Taylor attempting to restart the ship
and Dodge climbing up a ladder to test whether
or not the atmosphere is safe and breathable.
It is.
So, unable to get the ship up and run again
and the water beginning to sink it, the guys
grab a few essentials and abandon it, hopping
into the water and making their exit in a
small, round, yellow rubber dingy.
As they paddle away, the third member of the
crew - the rather serious Landon - counts
down the ship’s final seconds before it
descends below the surface.
Upon finding a suitable place to land, Dodge
quickly gets to work testing the soil while
Landon looks out over the lake deep in thought
- he is thinking about Stewart.
Unsympathetic Taylor points out Landon has
gone grey.
As Dodge declares the soil incapable of sustaining
any life, Landon marks their landing spot
with a small American flag.
Taylor, meanwhile, laughs at this and chooses
the entirely random direction in which they
will head.
They have enough food and water for only three
days.
Still clad in their spacesuits, the group
marches across the lifeless terrain ascending
rocky outcrops and descending steep, grey,
sandy slopes.
At one point, they are forced to run as a
loose boulder rolls down a hill in their direction.
At this point, clearly tired and thirsty,
they contemplate a drink but decide to save
the remaining fluid instead.
Then, as Dodge forges ahead, Taylor and Landon
begin to argue with Taylor mocking Landon
for wanting to be a hero and restating the
fact that everything they ever knew on Earth
would, by now, be long dead and buried.
Dodge yells out excitedly to them from a vantage
point that’s well ahead of the others and
significantly higher.
Taylor and Landon pick up the pace, and we
soon witness the three of them gathered around
a tiny plant, which they pluck from the ground.
Where there is one, there will be many more
they assert and head off searching for them.
Now venturing down a path lined by an increasing
number of plants, bushes, and trees, the group
are - unbeknownst to them - being followed
as we observe the silhouettes of those watching
them atop some steep rocks nearby.
Having spotted some rather sinister-looking
scarecrows up there, the group begins to make
their way up but is quickly distracted by
the sound of a waterfall.
They run towards it, clearly dirty and parched
from their lengthy journey, flinging off their
clothes and diving in.
They swim around gleefully, still unaware
of their hidden observers.
At that very moment, they spot footprints
in a sandbank at the edge of the pool.
Their possessions are being stolen by the
errant hands of those that had been flanking
them.
They spot this and give chase, noticing along
the way that very little has been discarded.
However, they manage to pick up and put on
at least some of their clothes which have
been cut up and partially destroyed.
The chase leads them to a field where a large
group of primitive-looking, long-haired, only
partially dressed people gather food.
While Landon remarks that they’re unlucky
to have landed in a place that’s seen such
little advancement, Taylor laughs it off and
suggests they could soon be running the site.
At this moment, panic ensues, and the hordes
of people begin to run from the field, pursued,
we soon discover, by what appear to be gorillas,
many of which are on horseback, armed with
sticks and guns.
The crew also attempts to flee, but Dodge
is shot to death trying to escape the field.
Taylor can hide among the crops nearby.
Landon is initially able to get away but is
soon captured in a net, as Taylor has been
shot in the neck.
The apes are clearly on a mission to either
kill or capture the humans, and as Taylor
is carried into a camp, bound to a stick,
and placed in a caged carriage, we see several
other humans strung upside down, hanging from
their ankles.
Here, in captivity, he first makes eye contact
with the striking female human he will later
name Nova.
Taylor is transported to what appears to be
a hospital and is next seen undergoing treatment
while two chimpanzees discuss both his fate
and the nature of their work.
While the doctor tending to Taylor’s injury
appears irritated and frustrated in his work
and disgusted at the dirtiness of the human,
his companion Dr. Zira is more sympathetic.
Her job, it seems, is to study the brains
of humans.
Having recovered much of his strength, Taylor
is transferred to a cell and is visited by
Zira who appears to be fascinated by him.
As she engages in a conversation about him,
he attempts to contribute to it but cannot
speak due to his injury.
His observers, nevertheless, notice he is
trying to form words.
Though this fascinates Zira, it is quickly
dismissed by her superior, Dr. Zaius, an orangutan,
who claims Taylor is merely mimicking their
actions.
In a series of subsequent interactions, Taylor
attempts to write messages to Zira, one of
which reaches her on a piece of paper he stole
from her.
She has learned his name.
The other humans, it has become apparent,
can neither write nor speak, but despite this,
we sense a growing affection between Nova
and Taylor, who Zira presents to him as a
gift as they begin to share a cage.
With Zira’s interest in Taylor - who she
prefers to call Bright Eyes - now piqued,
she brings her fiancé Cornelius to see him.
Cornelius, we find out, is intrigued as he
has been involved in archeological work and
believes a previously advanced human civilization
to have preexisted their current ape one.
This, he notes, suggests that men could, potentially,
be domesticated.
He is quickly shut down and warned by Dr.
Zaius, who consistently maintains mankind
to be incapable of order and inherently combative.
Zira and Cornelius are further intrigued when
Taylor makes a paper airplane, and they watch
it fly across the room as he attempts to convince
him that flight is possible and that his story
is indeed the truth.
His plan and their interest is once again
quashed by Dr. Zaius, who also suggests that
he plans to have Taylor castrated.
Taylor quickly realizes his only hope is to
escape and manages to do so, but though he
flees through, over, and between many buildings,
he cannot get away from his captures.
During this pursuit, he also witnesses Dodge’s
stuffed corpse in a museum.
Having been detained once again, we soon find
Taylor in a courtroom, with Zira and Cornelius
attempting to defend him against a group of
judges led by Zaius.
Unable to speak for himself, Taylor writes
down his story, which is laughed off and dismissed
by the judges.
We learn this society is founded on some ancient,
sacred scripts and, as a man, Taylor is judged
according to these.
Though suspicious of Taylor’s story, Zaius
pushes him to reveal more, concerned that
a rival group of men live in a distant forest
on the other side of the forbidden zone from
which Taylor emerged, and maybe a threat to
the ape kingdom.
However, he gives Taylor a chance to prove
other humans are capable of communication
by leading him, along with the other members
of the court, to meet the other people with
whom Taylor was captured.
Here we get our final glimpse of Landon, who
has a big scar on the side of his head and
has been operated on, depriving him now of
both awareness and speech.
Realizing the situation is now hopeless, and
with the help of her nephew Lucius, that night,
Zira frees Taylor, who insists on bringing
Nova with them.
The group makes their getaway on horseback.
Once free of the settlement, Taylor takes
one of their guns and asserts his independence.
The gang of them head for the cave Cornelius
had previously been excavating in the forbidden
zone, convinced that the evidence there can
prove his theory in contradiction of the scripts
and save them.
As Taylor sits on the beach shaving, much
to the bafflement of the others, Zaius and
a group of guards catch up to them.
During a brief gunfight, Taylor is able to
take the senior orangutan hostage, causing
the gorillas to back off.
At this point, Cornelius leads Zaius into
the cave desperate to convince him of his
theories on mankind.
Zaius remains cynical though and is unwilling
to accept any explanation for the discoveries
therein, even though Taylor is able to explain
the use and purpose of many of the artifacts,
an artificial heart valve included.
It seems they may be on the cusp of a breakthrough
when they discover the human doll has been
designed to say ‘mama’ as Taylor asserts,
‘why would an ape make a human doll that
could speak.’
Gunfire from outside ruins the moment, though,
as the group emerges to check on Lucias.
In this, the final showdown, Taylor gags and
binds his hostage, Dr. Zaius, who is in the
midst of this.
He admits he has long known of this previous
human world and discourages Taylor from uncovering
more information about it.
Unperturbed, Taylor heads off on horseback
with Nova, leaving those that freed him at
the mercy of Zaius and the gorillas.
They are immediately arrested, with Zaius
instructing the gorillas to blow up the entrance
to the cave to hide the evidence.
Taylor and Nova, meanwhile, are seen trotting
along a beach in the shadow of the remains
of the Statue of Liberty.
Our hero breaks down in tears of anger, despair
and frustration now knowing he has made it
home, a home that was entirely destroyed by
mankind.
Like and Subscribe to watch more videos like
this, and don’t forget to turn on your notifications.
That really helps my channel.
Thanks for watching!